overview/guides/openai-migration.mdx, before:

---
title: "Migrate from OpenAI"
description: "Switch from OpenAI to Venice AI in minutes — same SDK, more privacy, uncensored"
"og:title": "Migrate from OpenAI | Venice API Docs"
"og:description": "Drop-in replacement for OpenAI with privacy, no censorship, and competitive pricing"
---

Venice AI is a **drop-in replacement** for OpenAI. Same SDK, same code — just change two lines. Get privacy-first inference, uncensored models, and competitive pricing.

## The 2-Line Migration

### Python

```python
# Before (OpenAI)
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI()

# After (Venice) — change api_key and base_url
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI(
    api_key="your-venice-api-key",          # ← Change 1
    base_url="https://api.venice.ai/api/v1"  # ← Change 2
)
```

### Node.js

```javascript
// Before (OpenAI)
import OpenAI from 'openai';
const client = new OpenAI();

// After (Venice)
import OpenAI from 'openai';
const client = new OpenAI({
  apiKey: 'your-venice-api-key',
  baseURL: 'https://api.venice.ai/api/v1',
});
```

### cURL

```bash
# Before
curl https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions ...

# After — just change the URL and key
curl https://api.venice.ai/api/v1/chat/completions ...
```

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Before
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1

# After
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-venice-api-key
OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.venice.ai/api/v1
```

<Tip>
Many libraries and tools read `OPENAI_API_KEY` and `OPENAI_BASE_URL` automatically. Just updating these env vars may be all you need.
</Tip>

## Model Mapping

| OpenAI Model | Venice Equivalent | Type | Pricing (Input/Output per 1M) |
|-------------|-------------------|------|------|
| gpt-4o | `zai-org-glm-4.7` (Private) | Text | $0.55 / $2.65 |
| gpt-4o | `openai-gpt-52` (Anonymized) | Text | $2.19 / $17.50 |
| gpt-4o-mini | `qwen3-4b` | Text | $0.05 / $0.15 |
| gpt-4-turbo | `mistral-31-24b` | Text | $0.50 / $2.00 |
| o1 / o3 | `qwen3-235b-a22b-thinking-2507` (Private) | Reasoning | $0.45 / $3.50 |
| o1 / o3 | `grok-41-fast` (Anonymized) | Reasoning | $0.50 / $1.25 |
| gpt-4-vision | `mistral-31-24b` or `qwen3-vl-235b-a22b` | Vision | $0.50 / $2.00 |
| text-embedding-3-small | `text-embedding-bge-m3` | Embeddings | $0.15 / $0.60 |
| dall-e-3 | `qwen-image` (Private, $0.01) or `flux-2-pro` | Image | From $0.01 |
| whisper | `nvidia/parakeet-tdt-0.6b-v3` | STT | $0.0001/sec |
| tts-1 | `tts-kokoro` | TTS | $3.50/1M chars |

## Feature Compatibility

| Feature | OpenAI | Venice | Notes |
|---------|--------|--------|-------|
| Chat Completions | ✅ | ✅ | Fully compatible |
| Streaming | ✅ | ✅ | SSE format identical |
| Function Calling | ✅ | ✅ | Same `tools` parameter |
| Structured Output | ✅ | ✅ | Same `response_format` |
| Vision | ✅ | ✅ | Same content array format |
| Embeddings | ✅ | ✅ | Same API |
| Image Generation | ✅ | ✅ | Different response format* |
| TTS | ✅ | ✅ | Compatible |
| STT | ✅ | ✅ | Compatible |
| Assistants API | ✅ | ❌ | Use Characters or Minds instead |
| Batch API | ✅ | ❌ | Not yet available |
| Fine-tuning | ✅ | ❌ | Not available |

*Venice image API uses `/image/generate` with a slightly different schema. See the [Image API docs](/api-reference/endpoint/image/generate).

## Venice-Only Features

Venice offers capabilities OpenAI doesn't:

### 1. Built-in Web Search
```python
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="venice-uncensored",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Latest AI news today"}],
    extra_body={
        "venice_parameters": {
            "enable_web_search": "auto"
        }
    }
)
```

### 2. Web Scraping
```python
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="venice-uncensored",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Summarize https://example.com/article"}],
    extra_body={
        "venice_parameters": {
            "enable_web_scraping": True
        }
    }
)
```

### 3. Characters (AI Personas)
```python
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="venice-uncensored",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Tell me about yourself"}],
    extra_body={
        "venice_parameters": {
            "character_slug": "venice-ai"
        }
    }
)
```

### 4. Uncensored Models
Venice's private models have no content filtering, making them suitable for:
- Creative writing without guardrails
- Security research and red teaming
- Honest analysis without refusal patterns
- Medical/legal information without disclaimers

### 5. Video Generation
```python
# Queue a video generation job
import requests

response = requests.post(
    "https://api.venice.ai/api/v1/video/queue",
    headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {api_key}", "Content-Type": "application/json"},
    json={
        "model": "wan-2.6-text-to-video",
        "prompt": "A serene lake at sunset with gentle waves",
        "resolution": "720p",
        "duration": 5,
    }
)
job_id = response.json()["id"]
```

## Why Migrate?

### Privacy
- **Zero data retention** on private models — your prompts are never stored
- **No training on your data** — ever
- OpenAI retains data for 30 days and may use it for safety research

### Cost
- Private models are **often cheaper** than OpenAI equivalents
- `qwen3-4b` at $0.05/1M input is 10x cheaper than gpt-4o-mini
- `venice-uncensored` at $0.20/1M input vs gpt-4o at $2.50/1M

### Freedom
- **No content filtering** on uncensored models
- No account suspensions for controversial use cases
- Web3-native with crypto payment options
- DIEM staking for daily credits

### Model Diversity
- Access to models from multiple providers (Qwen, Llama, Mistral, Gemma, Claude, GPT, Grok, etc.)
- Switch between private and anonymized models per request
- New models added regularly

## Framework Migration

Most AI frameworks work with Venice by changing the base URL:

| Framework | Change Required |
|-----------|----------------|
| LangChain | `base_url` in `ChatOpenAI` |
| Vercel AI SDK | `baseURL` in `createOpenAI` |
| CrewAI | `OPENAI_API_BASE` env var |
| LlamaIndex | `api_base` in `OpenAI` |
| AutoGen | `base_url` in config |
| Haystack | `api_base_url` in `OpenAIGenerator` |
| Claude Code | `--api-base` flag or env var |
| Cursor | Custom API endpoint in settings |
| Continue.dev | `apiBase` in config.json |

<Card title="Get Your API Key" icon="key" href="https://venice.ai/settings/api">
  Generate a Venice API key and start migrating in minutes
</Card>

Commit message:

docs: fix framework integration guides for accuracy
- LangChain: update deprecated openai_api_base/openai_api_key to base_url/api_key
  in OpenAIEmbeddings (both occurrences)
- CrewAI: add note that SerperDevTool requires SERPER_API_KEY, suggest Venice's
  built-in web search as zero-config alternative
- Migration guide: mention /images/generations as OpenAI-compatible endpoint
  for easier DALL-E migration, update feature compatibility table
- Vercel AI SDK: left as-is (Note already acknowledges passthrough uncertainty)

overview/guides/openai-migration.mdx, after:

---
title: "Migrate from OpenAI"
description: "Switch from OpenAI to Venice AI in minutes — same SDK, more privacy, uncensored"
"og:title": "Migrate from OpenAI | Venice API Docs"
"og:description": "Drop-in replacement for OpenAI with privacy, no censorship, and competitive pricing"
---

Venice AI is a **drop-in replacement** for OpenAI. Same SDK, same code — just change two lines. Get privacy-first inference, uncensored models, and competitive pricing.

## The 2-Line Migration

### Python

```python
# Before (OpenAI)
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI()

# After (Venice) — change api_key and base_url
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI(
    api_key="your-venice-api-key",          # ← Change 1
    base_url="https://api.venice.ai/api/v1"  # ← Change 2
)
```

### Node.js

```javascript
// Before (OpenAI)
import OpenAI from 'openai';
const client = new OpenAI();

// After (Venice)
import OpenAI from 'openai';
const client = new OpenAI({
  apiKey: 'your-venice-api-key',
  baseURL: 'https://api.venice.ai/api/v1',
});
```

### cURL

```bash
# Before
curl https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions ...

# After — just change the URL and key
curl https://api.venice.ai/api/v1/chat/completions ...
```

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Before
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1

# After
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-venice-api-key
OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.venice.ai/api/v1
```

<Tip>
Many libraries and tools read `OPENAI_API_KEY` and `OPENAI_BASE_URL` automatically. Just updating these env vars may be all you need.
</Tip>

## Model Mapping

| OpenAI Model | Venice Equivalent | Type | Pricing (Input/Output per 1M) |
|-------------|-------------------|------|------|
| gpt-4o | `zai-org-glm-4.7` (Private) | Text | $0.55 / $2.65 |
| gpt-4o | `openai-gpt-52` (Anonymized) | Text | $2.19 / $17.50 |
| gpt-4o-mini | `qwen3-4b` | Text | $0.05 / $0.15 |
| gpt-4-turbo | `mistral-31-24b` | Text | $0.50 / $2.00 |
| o1 / o3 | `qwen3-235b-a22b-thinking-2507` (Private) | Reasoning | $0.45 / $3.50 |
| o1 / o3 | `grok-41-fast` (Anonymized) | Reasoning | $0.50 / $1.25 |
| gpt-4-vision | `mistral-31-24b` or `qwen3-vl-235b-a22b` | Vision | $0.50 / $2.00 |
| text-embedding-3-small | `text-embedding-bge-m3` | Embeddings | $0.15 / $0.60 |
| dall-e-3 | `qwen-image` (Private, $0.01) or `flux-2-pro` | Image | From $0.01 |
| whisper | `nvidia/parakeet-tdt-0.6b-v3` | STT | $0.0001/sec |
| tts-1 | `tts-kokoro` | TTS | $3.50/1M chars |

## Feature Compatibility

| Feature | OpenAI | Venice | Notes |
|---------|--------|--------|-------|
| Chat Completions | ✅ | ✅ | Fully compatible |
| Streaming | ✅ | ✅ | SSE format identical |
| Function Calling | ✅ | ✅ | Same `tools` parameter |
| Structured Output | ✅ | ✅ | Same `response_format` |
| Vision | ✅ | ✅ | Same content array format |
| Embeddings | ✅ | ✅ | Same API |
| Image Generation | ✅ | ✅ | OpenAI-compatible via `/images/generations`* |
| TTS | ✅ | ✅ | Compatible |
| STT | ✅ | ✅ | Compatible |
| Assistants API | ✅ | ❌ | Use Characters or Minds instead |
| Batch API | ✅ | ❌ | Not yet available |
| Fine-tuning | ✅ | ❌ | Not available |

*Venice also provides an OpenAI-compatible endpoint at `POST /images/generations` for easier migration from DALL-E. For Venice's native image API with additional options, see [Image Generate](/api-reference/endpoint/image/generate).

## Venice-Only Features

Venice offers capabilities OpenAI doesn't:

### 1. Built-in Web Search
```python
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="venice-uncensored",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Latest AI news today"}],
    extra_body={
        "venice_parameters": {
            "enable_web_search": "auto"
        }
    }
)
```

### 2. Web Scraping
```python
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="venice-uncensored",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Summarize https://example.com/article"}],
    extra_body={
        "venice_parameters": {
            "enable_web_scraping": True
        }
    }
)
```

### 3. Characters (AI Personas)
```python
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="venice-uncensored",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Tell me about yourself"}],
    extra_body={
        "venice_parameters": {
            "character_slug": "venice-ai"
        }
    }
)
```

### 4. Uncensored Models
Venice's private models have no content filtering, making them suitable for:
- Creative writing without guardrails
- Security research and red teaming
- Honest analysis without refusal patterns
- Medical/legal information without disclaimers

### 5. Video Generation
```python
# Queue a video generation job
import requests

response = requests.post(
    "https://api.venice.ai/api/v1/video/queue",
    headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {api_key}", "Content-Type": "application/json"},
    json={
        "model": "wan-2.6-text-to-video",
        "prompt": "A serene lake at sunset with gentle waves",
        "resolution": "720p",
        "duration": 5,
    }
)
job_id = response.json()["id"]
```

## Why Migrate?

### Privacy
- **Zero data retention** on private models — your prompts are never stored
- **No training on your data** — ever
- OpenAI retains data for 30 days and may use it for safety research

### Cost
- Private models are **often cheaper** than OpenAI equivalents
- `qwen3-4b` at $0.05/1M input is 10x cheaper than gpt-4o-mini
- `venice-uncensored` at $0.20/1M input vs gpt-4o at $2.50/1M

### Freedom
- **No content filtering** on uncensored models
- No account suspensions for controversial use cases
- Web3-native with crypto payment options
- DIEM staking for daily credits

### Model Diversity
- Access to models from multiple providers (Qwen, Llama, Mistral, Gemma, Claude, GPT, Grok, etc.)
- Switch between private and anonymized models per request
- New models added regularly

## Framework Migration

Most AI frameworks work with Venice by changing the base URL:

| Framework | Change Required |
|-----------|----------------|
| LangChain | `base_url` in `ChatOpenAI` |
| Vercel AI SDK | `baseURL` in `createOpenAI` |
| CrewAI | `OPENAI_API_BASE` env var |
| LlamaIndex | `api_base` in `OpenAI` |
| AutoGen | `base_url` in config |
| Haystack | `api_base_url` in `OpenAIGenerator` |
| Claude Code | `--api-base` flag or env var |
| Cursor | Custom API endpoint in settings |
| Continue.dev | `apiBase` in config.json |

<Card title="Get Your API Key" icon="key" href="https://venice.ai/settings/api">
  Generate a Venice API key and start migrating in minutes
</Card>
