overview/guides/prompt-caching.mdx, before:

---
title: Prompt Caching
description: Reduce costs and latency by caching repeated prompt content
"og:title": "Prompt Caching | Venice API Docs"
"og:description": "Learn how to use prompt caching to reduce costs and latency for repeated content in your API requests."
---

Prompt caching stores processed input tokens so subsequent requests with identical prefixes can reuse them instead of reprocessing. This reduces latency (up to 80% for long prompts) and costs (up to 90% discount on cached tokens).

Venice handles caching automatically for supported models, but understanding how each provider implements caching helps you maximize cache hit rates and minimize costs.

## How Caching Works

Caching operates on **prefix matching**: the system stores processed tokens and reuses them when subsequent requests start with the same content.

Consider a chatbot with a 2,000-token system prompt:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Request 1">
    System prompt (2,000 tokens) + user message (50 tokens)
    
    **Processed**: 2,050 tokens · **From cache**: 0 tokens
    
    Prefix written to cache.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Request 2">
    System prompt (2,000 tokens) + user message (80 tokens)
    
    **Processed**: 80 tokens · **From cache**: 2,000 tokens
  </Step>
  <Step title="Request 3">
    System prompt (2,000 tokens) + user message (120 tokens)
    
    **Processed**: 120 tokens · **From cache**: 2,000 tokens
  </Step>
</Steps>

**Total without caching**: 2,050 + 2,080 + 2,120 = 6,250 tokens at full price

**Total with caching**: 2,050 + 80 + 120 = 2,250 tokens at full price, 4,000 tokens at discounted rate

<Warning>
Caching only works on the **prefix**. Any change to the beginning of your prompt invalidates the cache for everything that follows. Always put static content (system prompt, documents, examples) before dynamic content (user messages).
</Warning>

## Supported Models and Pricing

<div id="cache-pricing-placeholder">Loading...</div>

<Note>
Claude Opus 4.5 charges a **premium rate** for cache writes (\$7.50/1M tokens vs \$6.00 for regular input). The first request populating the cache costs more, but subsequent cache hits save 90%. Other models don't charge extra for cache writes.
</Note>

## Provider-Specific Behavior

Venice normalizes caching across providers. For most models, caching is automatic. Just send your requests and check the response for cache statistics. The exception is **Claude**, which requires explicit cache markers for optimal performance.

| Provider | Min Tokens | Cache Lifetime | Write Cost | Read Discount | Explicit Markers |
|----------|------------|----------------|------------|---------------|------------------|
| Claude Opus 4.5 | ~4,000 | 5 min | +25% | 90% | Required |
| GPT-5.2 | 1,024 | 5-10 min | None | 90% | Not needed |
| Gemini | ~1,024 | 1 hour | None | 75-90% | Not needed |
| Grok | ~1,024 | 5 min | None | 75-88% | Not needed |
| DeepSeek | ~1,024 | 5 min | None | 50% | Not needed |
| MiniMax | ~1,024 | 5 min | None | 90% | Not needed |
| Kimi | ~1,024 | 5 min | None | 50% | Not needed |

<Tip>
Venice automatically adds `cache_control` to system prompts for models that require explicit markers. You only need to add manual markers for caching content beyond the system prompt, like long documents in user messages.
</Tip>

### Claude Opus 4.5 (Anthropic)

Claude requires explicit cache breakpoints. For fine-grained control beyond the system prompt, you can add additional breakpoints manually.

**What you need to know:**

- **Explicit markers required**: Add `cache_control: { "type": "ephemeral" }` to content blocks you want cached
- **Up to 4 breakpoints per request**: The system uses the longest matching prefix
- **Cache key is byte-exact**: Whitespace changes, different image encodings, or reordered tools break cache hits
- **Cache-aware rate limits**: Cached tokens don't count against your ITPM limit, enabling higher effective throughput
- **25% write premium**: First request costs more, but 90% savings on subsequent reads

```json
{
  "messages": [
    {
      "role": "system",
      "content": [{
        "type": "text",
        "text": "You are a legal assistant...",
        "cache_control": { "type": "ephemeral" }
      }]
    },
    {
      "role": "user", 
      "content": [{
        "type": "text",
        "text": "[Long contract document...]",
        "cache_control": { "type": "ephemeral" }
      }]
    },
    { "role": "assistant", "content": "I've reviewed the contract." },
    { "role": "user", "content": "What are the termination clauses?" }
  ]
}
```

Both the system prompt and document are cached. Follow-up questions reuse the cached context.

### All Other Models

Caching is **automatic**. No special parameters needed. Just ensure your prompts exceed ~1,024 tokens and use `prompt_cache_key` for consistent routing.

## Request Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Models | Description |
|-----------|------|--------|-------------|
| `prompt_cache_key` | string | All | Routing hint for cache affinity. Requests with the same key are more likely to hit the same server with warm cache. |
| `cache_control` | object | Claude | Marks content blocks for caching. See Claude Opus 4.5 section. |

### prompt_cache_key

For multi-turn conversations or agentic workflows, use a consistent `prompt_cache_key` to improve cache hit rates:

```json
{
  "model": "claude-opus-45",
  "prompt_cache_key": "session-abc-123",
  "messages": [...]
}
```

This routes requests to servers likely to have your context already cached. Use a session ID, conversation ID, or user ID as the key.

## Response Fields

The response `usage` object includes cache statistics:

```json
{
  "usage": {
    "prompt_tokens": 5500,
    "completion_tokens": 200,
    "total_tokens": 5700,
    "prompt_tokens_details": {
      "cached_tokens": 5000,
      "cache_creation_input_tokens": 0
    }
  }
}
```

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `prompt_tokens` | Total input tokens in the request |
| `prompt_tokens_details.cached_tokens` | Tokens served from cache (billed at discounted rate) |
| `prompt_tokens_details.cache_creation_input_tokens` | Tokens written to cache (may incur premium on Claude) |

**Billing breakdown** (using Claude Opus 4.5 as example):
- 5000 cached tokens × \$0.60/1M = \$0.003
- 500 uncached tokens × \$6.00/1M = \$0.003
- Total: \$0.006 (vs \$0.033 without caching, 82% savings)

## Best Practices

### Structure prompts for caching

Place static content at the beginning, dynamic content at the end.

**Good structure**

| Position | Content | Cached? |
|----------|---------|---------|
| 1 | System instructions | Yes |
| 2 | Reference documents | Yes |
| 3 | Few-shot examples | Yes |
| 4 | User query | No |

**Bad structure**

| Position | Content | Cached? |
|----------|---------|---------|
| 1 | Current timestamp | No (invalidates everything after) |
| 2 | System instructions | No |
| 3 | User query | No |

### Keep prefixes byte-identical

Cache keys are computed from exact byte sequences. Even trivial differences break cache hits:

- Different whitespace or newlines
- Timestamps or request IDs in prompts
- Randomized few-shot example ordering
- Different formatting of the same content

### Meet minimum token thresholds

If your prompts are below the minimum (typically 1,024 tokens), caching won't activate. For small prompts, consider:

- Adding more context or examples to reach the threshold
- Bundling multiple small requests into batched prompts
- Accepting that caching won't apply for simple queries

### Use prompt_cache_key for conversations

For multi-turn conversations, set a consistent `prompt_cache_key`:

```json
// Turn 1
{ "prompt_cache_key": "conv-xyz", "messages": [...] }

// Turn 2
{ "prompt_cache_key": "conv-xyz", "messages": [...] }

// Turn 3
{ "prompt_cache_key": "conv-xyz", "messages": [...] }
```

This improves the likelihood that all turns hit the same server with warm cache.

### Monitor cache performance

Track these metrics:
- **Cache hit rate**: `cached_tokens / prompt_tokens`
- **Cost savings**: Compare actual cost vs. uncached cost
- **Latency reduction**: Time-to-first-token with vs. without cache hits

If `cached_tokens` is consistently 0:
1. Prompts may be below minimum token threshold
2. Prompts may be changing between requests
3. Requests may be hitting different servers (use `prompt_cache_key`)
4. Cache may have expired (requests too infrequent)

### Consider cache economics

**Claude Opus 4.5 cache write premium**: First request costs 25% more, but 90% savings on subsequent reads.

| Scenario | Cache write premium worth it? |
|----------|-------------------------------|
| 1 request with this prompt | No (pay 25% more, no benefit) |
| 2+ requests with same prefix | Yes (break even at 2nd request) |
| Rapidly changing prompts | No (constant write costs) |
| Stable system prompt, many queries | Yes (amortized over many reads) |

## Cache Lifetime

Caches expire after a period of inactivity (typically 5-10 minutes). This means:

| Traffic pattern | Caching benefit |
|-----------------|-----------------|
| Continuous requests (< 5 min gaps) | High: cache stays warm |
| Bursty traffic (gaps > 10 min) | Limited: cache expires between bursts |
| Sporadic requests (hours apart) | None: cache always cold |

## Caching with Tools and Functions

Function definitions can be cached along with system prompts:

```json
{
  "model": "claude-opus-45",
  "tools": [
    {
      "type": "function",
      "function": {
        "name": "search_database",
        "description": "Search the product database",
        "parameters": { ... }
      }
    }
  ],
  "messages": [
    {
      "role": "system",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "You are a shopping assistant...",
          "cache_control": { "type": "ephemeral" }
        }
      ]
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

The tool definitions become part of the cached prefix. If you have many tools, this can significantly reduce per-request costs.

## Caching with Images and Documents

For vision models, images can be included in cached content:

```json
{
  "model": "claude-opus-45",
  "messages": [
    {
      "role": "user",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "image_url",
          "image_url": { "url": "data:image/png;base64,..." }
        },
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "This is the floor plan. I'll ask several questions about it.",
          "cache_control": { "type": "ephemeral" }
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "role": "assistant",
      "content": "I can see the floor plan. What would you like to know?"
    },
    {
      "role": "user",
      "content": "How many bedrooms are there?"
    }
  ]
}
```

The image and initial context are cached, so follow-up questions about the same image don't re-process it.

## Troubleshooting

<Accordion title="cached_tokens is always 0">

| Cause | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Prompt too short | Ensure prompt exceeds ~1,024 tokens (4,000 for Claude) |
| Prefix changed | Check for dynamic content at the start of your prompt |
| First request | Expected: first request writes to cache, subsequent requests read |
| Cache expired | Reduce time between requests to under 5 minutes |
| Different servers | Add `prompt_cache_key` to route requests consistently |

</Accordion>

<Accordion title="cache_creation_input_tokens on every request">

| Cause | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Prompt changing | Remove timestamps, request IDs, or other dynamic content from the prefix |
| Missing cache_control | For Claude, ensure `cache_control` marker is present on content blocks |
| Below threshold | Prompts under minimum token count don't trigger caching |

</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Higher costs than expected">

| Cause | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Cache write premium | Claude charges 25% more for writes. Only worth it if you reuse the prompt. |
| Low reuse | If each prompt is unique, you pay write costs without read benefits |
| Bad prompt structure | Move dynamic content to the end so the prefix stays stable |

</Accordion>

Commit message:

Add disclaimer about provider-controlled caching behavior

overview/guides/prompt-caching.mdx, after:

---
title: Prompt Caching
description: Reduce costs and latency by caching repeated prompt content
"og:title": "Prompt Caching | Venice API Docs"
"og:description": "Learn how to use prompt caching to reduce costs and latency for repeated content in your API requests."
---

Prompt caching stores processed input tokens so subsequent requests with identical prefixes can reuse them instead of reprocessing. This reduces latency (up to 80% for long prompts) and costs (up to 90% discount on cached tokens).

Venice handles caching automatically for supported models, but understanding how each provider implements caching helps you maximize cache hit rates and minimize costs.

## How Caching Works

Caching operates on **prefix matching**: the system stores processed tokens and reuses them when subsequent requests start with the same content.

Consider a chatbot with a 2,000-token system prompt:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Request 1">
    System prompt (2,000 tokens) + user message (50 tokens)
    
    **Processed**: 2,050 tokens · **From cache**: 0 tokens
    
    Prefix written to cache.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Request 2">
    System prompt (2,000 tokens) + user message (80 tokens)
    
    **Processed**: 80 tokens · **From cache**: 2,000 tokens
  </Step>
  <Step title="Request 3">
    System prompt (2,000 tokens) + user message (120 tokens)
    
    **Processed**: 120 tokens · **From cache**: 2,000 tokens
  </Step>
</Steps>

**Total without caching**: 2,050 + 2,080 + 2,120 = 6,250 tokens at full price

**Total with caching**: 2,050 + 80 + 120 = 2,250 tokens at full price, 4,000 tokens at discounted rate

<Warning>
Caching only works on the **prefix**. Any change to the beginning of your prompt invalidates the cache for everything that follows. Always put static content (system prompt, documents, examples) before dynamic content (user messages).
</Warning>

## Supported Models and Pricing

<div id="cache-pricing-placeholder">Loading...</div>

<Note>
Claude Opus 4.5 charges a **premium rate** for cache writes (\$7.50/1M tokens vs \$6.00 for regular input). The first request populating the cache costs more, but subsequent cache hits save 90%. Other models don't charge extra for cache writes.
</Note>

## Provider-Specific Behavior

Venice normalizes caching across providers. For most models, caching is automatic. Just send your requests and check the response for cache statistics. The exception is **Claude**, which requires explicit cache markers for optimal performance. 

Caching behavior is ultimately controlled by each provider and may change, so check provider docs for the latest details.

| Provider | Min Tokens | Cache Lifetime | Write Cost | Read Discount | Explicit Markers |
|----------|------------|----------------|------------|---------------|------------------|
| Claude Opus 4.5 | ~4,000 | 5 min | +25% | 90% | Required |
| GPT-5.2 | 1,024 | 5-10 min | None | 90% | Not needed |
| Gemini | ~1,024 | 1 hour | None | 75-90% | Not needed |
| Grok | ~1,024 | 5 min | None | 75-88% | Not needed |
| DeepSeek | ~1,024 | 5 min | None | 50% | Not needed |
| MiniMax | ~1,024 | 5 min | None | 90% | Not needed |
| Kimi | ~1,024 | 5 min | None | 50% | Not needed |

<Tip>
Venice automatically adds `cache_control` to system prompts for models that require explicit markers. You only need to add manual markers for caching content beyond the system prompt, like long documents in user messages.
</Tip>

### Claude Opus 4.5 (Anthropic)

Claude requires explicit cache breakpoints. For fine-grained control beyond the system prompt, you can add additional breakpoints manually.

**What you need to know:**

- **Explicit markers required**: Add `cache_control: { "type": "ephemeral" }` to content blocks you want cached
- **Up to 4 breakpoints per request**: The system uses the longest matching prefix
- **Cache key is byte-exact**: Whitespace changes, different image encodings, or reordered tools break cache hits
- **Cache-aware rate limits**: Cached tokens don't count against your ITPM limit, enabling higher effective throughput
- **25% write premium**: First request costs more, but 90% savings on subsequent reads

```json
{
  "messages": [
    {
      "role": "system",
      "content": [{
        "type": "text",
        "text": "You are a legal assistant...",
        "cache_control": { "type": "ephemeral" }
      }]
    },
    {
      "role": "user", 
      "content": [{
        "type": "text",
        "text": "[Long contract document...]",
        "cache_control": { "type": "ephemeral" }
      }]
    },
    { "role": "assistant", "content": "I've reviewed the contract." },
    { "role": "user", "content": "What are the termination clauses?" }
  ]
}
```

Both the system prompt and document are cached. Follow-up questions reuse the cached context.

### All Other Models

Caching is **automatic**. No special parameters needed. Just ensure your prompts exceed ~1,024 tokens and use `prompt_cache_key` for consistent routing.

## Request Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Models | Description |
|-----------|------|--------|-------------|
| `prompt_cache_key` | string | All | Routing hint for cache affinity. Requests with the same key are more likely to hit the same server with warm cache. |
| `cache_control` | object | Claude | Marks content blocks for caching. See Claude Opus 4.5 section. |

### prompt_cache_key

For multi-turn conversations or agentic workflows, use a consistent `prompt_cache_key` to improve cache hit rates:

```json
{
  "model": "claude-opus-45",
  "prompt_cache_key": "session-abc-123",
  "messages": [...]
}
```

This routes requests to servers likely to have your context already cached. Use a session ID, conversation ID, or user ID as the key.

## Response Fields

The response `usage` object includes cache statistics:

```json
{
  "usage": {
    "prompt_tokens": 5500,
    "completion_tokens": 200,
    "total_tokens": 5700,
    "prompt_tokens_details": {
      "cached_tokens": 5000,
      "cache_creation_input_tokens": 0
    }
  }
}
```

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `prompt_tokens` | Total input tokens in the request |
| `prompt_tokens_details.cached_tokens` | Tokens served from cache (billed at discounted rate) |
| `prompt_tokens_details.cache_creation_input_tokens` | Tokens written to cache (may incur premium on Claude) |

**Billing breakdown** (using Claude Opus 4.5 as example):
- 5000 cached tokens × \$0.60/1M = \$0.003
- 500 uncached tokens × \$6.00/1M = \$0.003
- Total: \$0.006 (vs \$0.033 without caching, 82% savings)

## Best Practices

### Structure prompts for caching

Place static content at the beginning, dynamic content at the end.

**Good structure**

| Position | Content | Cached? |
|----------|---------|---------|
| 1 | System instructions | Yes |
| 2 | Reference documents | Yes |
| 3 | Few-shot examples | Yes |
| 4 | User query | No |

**Bad structure**

| Position | Content | Cached? |
|----------|---------|---------|
| 1 | Current timestamp | No (invalidates everything after) |
| 2 | System instructions | No |
| 3 | User query | No |

### Keep prefixes byte-identical

Cache keys are computed from exact byte sequences. Even trivial differences break cache hits:

- Different whitespace or newlines
- Timestamps or request IDs in prompts
- Randomized few-shot example ordering
- Different formatting of the same content

### Meet minimum token thresholds

If your prompts are below the minimum (typically 1,024 tokens), caching won't activate. For small prompts, consider:

- Adding more context or examples to reach the threshold
- Bundling multiple small requests into batched prompts
- Accepting that caching won't apply for simple queries

### Use prompt_cache_key for conversations

For multi-turn conversations, set a consistent `prompt_cache_key`:

```json
// Turn 1
{ "prompt_cache_key": "conv-xyz", "messages": [...] }

// Turn 2
{ "prompt_cache_key": "conv-xyz", "messages": [...] }

// Turn 3
{ "prompt_cache_key": "conv-xyz", "messages": [...] }
```

This improves the likelihood that all turns hit the same server with warm cache.

### Monitor cache performance

Track these metrics:
- **Cache hit rate**: `cached_tokens / prompt_tokens`
- **Cost savings**: Compare actual cost vs. uncached cost
- **Latency reduction**: Time-to-first-token with vs. without cache hits

If `cached_tokens` is consistently 0:
1. Prompts may be below minimum token threshold
2. Prompts may be changing between requests
3. Requests may be hitting different servers (use `prompt_cache_key`)
4. Cache may have expired (requests too infrequent)

### Consider cache economics

**Claude Opus 4.5 cache write premium**: First request costs 25% more, but 90% savings on subsequent reads.

| Scenario | Cache write premium worth it? |
|----------|-------------------------------|
| 1 request with this prompt | No (pay 25% more, no benefit) |
| 2+ requests with same prefix | Yes (break even at 2nd request) |
| Rapidly changing prompts | No (constant write costs) |
| Stable system prompt, many queries | Yes (amortized over many reads) |

## Cache Lifetime

Caches expire after a period of inactivity (typically 5-10 minutes). This means:

| Traffic pattern | Caching benefit |
|-----------------|-----------------|
| Continuous requests (< 5 min gaps) | High: cache stays warm |
| Bursty traffic (gaps > 10 min) | Limited: cache expires between bursts |
| Sporadic requests (hours apart) | None: cache always cold |

## Caching with Tools and Functions

Function definitions can be cached along with system prompts:

```json
{
  "model": "claude-opus-45",
  "tools": [
    {
      "type": "function",
      "function": {
        "name": "search_database",
        "description": "Search the product database",
        "parameters": { ... }
      }
    }
  ],
  "messages": [
    {
      "role": "system",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "You are a shopping assistant...",
          "cache_control": { "type": "ephemeral" }
        }
      ]
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

The tool definitions become part of the cached prefix. If you have many tools, this can significantly reduce per-request costs.

## Caching with Images and Documents

For vision models, images can be included in cached content:

```json
{
  "model": "claude-opus-45",
  "messages": [
    {
      "role": "user",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "image_url",
          "image_url": { "url": "data:image/png;base64,..." }
        },
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "This is the floor plan. I'll ask several questions about it.",
          "cache_control": { "type": "ephemeral" }
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "role": "assistant",
      "content": "I can see the floor plan. What would you like to know?"
    },
    {
      "role": "user",
      "content": "How many bedrooms are there?"
    }
  ]
}
```

The image and initial context are cached, so follow-up questions about the same image don't re-process it.

## Troubleshooting

<Accordion title="cached_tokens is always 0">

| Cause | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Prompt too short | Ensure prompt exceeds ~1,024 tokens (4,000 for Claude) |
| Prefix changed | Check for dynamic content at the start of your prompt |
| First request | Expected: first request writes to cache, subsequent requests read |
| Cache expired | Reduce time between requests to under 5 minutes |
| Different servers | Add `prompt_cache_key` to route requests consistently |

</Accordion>

<Accordion title="cache_creation_input_tokens on every request">

| Cause | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Prompt changing | Remove timestamps, request IDs, or other dynamic content from the prefix |
| Missing cache_control | For Claude, ensure `cache_control` marker is present on content blocks |
| Below threshold | Prompts under minimum token count don't trigger caching |

</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Higher costs than expected">

| Cause | Solution |
|-------|----------|
| Cache write premium | Claude charges 25% more for writes. Only worth it if you reuse the prompt. |
| Low reuse | If each prompt is unique, you pay write costs without read benefits |
| Bad prompt structure | Move dynamic content to the end so the prefix stays stable |

</Accordion>
