api-reference/endpoint/chat/model_feature_suffix.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Model Feature Suffix'
"og:title": "Venice API Docs: Model Feature Suffix"
"og:description": "Documentation covering Venice's Model Feature Suffix feature."
---

Venice supports additional capabilities within it's models that can be powered by the `venice_parameters` input on the chat completions endpoint.

In certain circumstances, you may be using a client that does not let you modify the request body. For those platforms, you can utilize Venice's Model Feature Suffix offering to pass flags in via the model ID.

## Instructions

You can append any valid `venice_parameter` value to the end of the model ID as follows. These feature suffix should follow the model name with a `:` and you can chain multiple features together:

### To Set Web Search to Auto
```
default:enable_web_search=auto
```

### To Enable Web Search and Disable System Prompt
```
default:enable_web_search=on&include_venice_system_prompt=false
```

### To Enable Web Search and Add Citations to the Response
```
default:enable_web_search=on&enable_web_citations=true
```

### To Use a Character
```
default:character_slug=alan-watts
```

### To Hide Thinking Blocks on a Reasoning Model Response
```
qwen3-4b:strip_thinking_response=true
```

### To Disable Thinking on Supported Reasoning Models
Certain reasoning models (like Qwen 3) support disabling the thinking process. You can activate using the suffix below:
```
qwen3-4b:disable_thinking=true
```

### To Add Web Search Results to a Streaming Response
This will enable web search, add citations to the response body and include the search results in the stream as the final response message.

You can see an example of this in our [Postman Collection here](https://www.postman.com/veniceai/workspace/venice-ai-workspace/request/38652128-ceef3395-451c-4391-bc7e-a40377e0357b?action=share&source=copy-link&creator=38652128&active-environment=ef110f4e-d3e1-43b5-8029-4d6877e62041).

```
qwen3-4b:enable_web_search=on&enable_web_citations=true&include_search_results_in_stream=true
```


## Postman Example

You can view an example of this feature in our [Postman Collection here](https://www.postman.com/veniceai/workspace/venice-ai-workspace/request/38652128-857f29ff-ee70-4c7c-beba-ef884bdc93be?action=share&creator=38652128&ctx=documentation&active-environment=38652128-ef110f4e-d3e1-43b5-8029-4d6877e62041).

Commit message:

added a clearer explanation for model suffix syntax

api-reference/endpoint/chat/model_feature_suffix.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Model Feature Suffix'
"og:title": "Venice API Docs: Model Feature Suffix"
"og:description": "Documentation covering Venice's Model Feature Suffix feature."
---

Venice supports additional capabilities within it's models that can be powered by the `venice_parameters` input on the chat completions endpoint.

In certain circumstances, you may be using a client that does not let you modify the request body. For those platforms, you can utilize Venice's Model Feature Suffix offering to pass flags in via the model ID.

## Syntax

The Model Feature Suffix follows this pattern:

```
<model_id>:<parameter>=<value>
```

For multiple parameters, chain them with `&`:

```
<model_id>:<parameter1>=<value1>&<parameter2>=<value2>&<parameter3>=<value3>
```

## Examples

### To Set Web Search to Auto
```
default:enable_web_search=auto
```

### To Enable Web Search and Disable System Prompt
```
default:enable_web_search=on&include_venice_system_prompt=false
```

### To Enable Web Search and Add Citations to the Response
```
default:enable_web_search=on&enable_web_citations=true
```

### To Use a Character
```
default:character_slug=alan-watts
```

### To Hide Thinking Blocks on a Reasoning Model Response
```
qwen3-4b:strip_thinking_response=true
```

### To Disable Thinking on Supported Reasoning Models
Certain reasoning models (like Qwen 3) support disabling the thinking process. You can activate using the suffix below:
```
qwen3-4b:disable_thinking=true
```

### To Add Web Search Results to a Streaming Response
This will enable web search, add citations to the response body and include the search results in the stream as the final response message.

You can see an example of this in our [Postman Collection here](https://www.postman.com/veniceai/workspace/venice-ai-workspace/request/38652128-ceef3395-451c-4391-bc7e-a40377e0357b?action=share&source=copy-link&creator=38652128&active-environment=ef110f4e-d3e1-43b5-8029-4d6877e62041).

```
qwen3-4b:enable_web_search=on&enable_web_citations=true&include_search_results_in_stream=true
```


## Postman Example

You can view an example of this feature in our [Postman Collection here](https://www.postman.com/veniceai/workspace/venice-ai-workspace/request/38652128-857f29ff-ee70-4c7c-beba-ef884bdc93be?action=share&creator=38652128&ctx=documentation&active-environment=38652128-ef110f4e-d3e1-43b5-8029-4d6877e62041).
